[ADR] Declaring services as public in container (#13641)
Sylius/Sylius: adr/2022_02_11_declaring_services_in_container.md

## Considered Options

### Making all services public

* Good, because it is coherent with previous services
* Good, because it is easily usable with ResourceController, StateMachines and PHPUnit
* Good, because it maintains backward compatibility
* Bad, because it is against Symfony recommendation

### Making all service private

* Good, because it is coherent with previous services
* Good, because it follows Symfony recommendation
* Bad, because it breaks backward compatibility
* Bad, because it requires additional code to rework ResourceController and StateMachines service handling
* Bad, because it requires small refactor for PHPUnit handling

### Making only new services private

* Good, because it follows Symfony recommendation for new stuff
* Good, because it maintains backward compatibility
* Bad, because it requires additional code to rework ResourceController and StateMachines service handling
* Bad, because it requires small refactor for PHPUnit handling

## Decision Outcome

Chosen option: **"Making all services public"**

For now, it is the most straightforward solution, that does not cost us too much, does not put additional debt on us, and 

> it is the solution that we are doing since 3.4(it was just implicit).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is the solution that we are doing since 3.4 (it was just implicit).
```

# Declaring services in container

* Status: accepted
* Date: 2022-02-11

## Context and Problem Statement

Since Symfony 3.4, all Symfony services are declared private by default. And this is the recommended Symfony approach. On the 
other hand, first stable Sylius release was published before that and therefore at the moment of publication of this recommendation

> Sylius had thousands (or at least hundreds) public services. The question is how should we handle services declared after the 

Reviewer 2: `thousands (or at least hundreds)` I think we can count that to be precise 😄 

<img width="752" alt="Zrzut ekranu 2022-02-11 o 16 28 51" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6212718/153619894-255b9f5a-c723-4579-ab22-940aa0abe086.png">

On 1.11 - 964 services with "sylius.", not aliases but these are both private and public... so I think we can safely write "hundreds" 😄

3.4 release.

## Decision Drivers

Declared services should be:

> * services should be easily usable in ResourceControllers (where we are allowing for fetching services directly from container)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* easily usable in ResourceControllers (where we are allowing for fetching services directly from the container)
```

> * services should be easily usable in state machine callback (where we are allowing for fetching services directly from container)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* easily usable in the state machine callback (where we are allowing for fetching services directly from the container)
```

Reviewer 2: Additionally, do we "allow" to fetch services from container used as SM callbacks? I believe it's required by state machine library itself

Author: The above change was done. According to the second question: absolutely - you may declare services private and therefore you will block usage in SM. We may discuss if other services that are already used in Sylius should be easily pluggable to SM if you wish. But by default, we may allow or block access to given services from SM callbacks

* it would be better to have one, coherent rule for all services

> * services should be easily accessible in PHPUnit

Reviewer 2: Looking at these two points - maybe just remove `Declared services should be:` at the beginning, so we don't need any changes in the points

## Considered Options

> You are right, this PR is against Symfony Best practices. However, our internal rule is to make all services public, 

Reviewer 2: `You are right` nobody is saying anything xD `Indeed` would be sufficient

due to Sylius Resource Controller and testing with PHPUnit for example. In all these scenarios we are fetching services 

> directly from the container. In the resource controller, the services are fetched to perform regular logic. In the case 

Reviewer 2: `resource controller` here, `Resource Controller` above ⚖️

> of PHPUnit, I just had a failing test at #12968. IIRC, Behat also requires us to have public services, but I'm not 100% sure about it.

Reviewer 2: `I just had a failing test` - I believe ADRs should be impersonal

Reviewer 2: `but I'm not 100% sure about it.` let's check it to be sure 😄  or if we're still not sure - let's not mention it here

These changes should make us coherent with something, that we introduced in #9366. All our services should be public by 

> default, unless we will write a new ADR.

Reviewer 2: It seems as all this block should go to `Decision Outcome` sections, as it does not refer to considered options but to the already taken decision

### Making all services public

This approach is still possible and easily accessible. It will make it coherent with all previous service definitions and
make it usable with ResourceController, StateMachines and PHPUnit:

* Good, because it is coherent with previous services
* Good, because it is easily usable with ResourceController, StateMachines and PHPUnit

> * Good, because it maintains backward compatibility

Reviewer 2: It seems like just the repetition of lines 33-34. I would remove them (I mean, lines 33-34 :dancer:)

* Bad, because it is against Symfony recommendation

### Making all service private

* Good, because it is coherent with previous services
* Good, because it follows Symfony recommendation

> * Bad, because it is breaks backward compatibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Bad, because it breaks backward compatibility
```

* Bad, because it requires additional code to rework ResourceController and StateMachines service handling
* Bad, because it requires small refactor for PHPUnit handling

### Making only new services private

* Good, because it follows Symfony recommendation for new stuff
* Good, because it maintains backward compatibility
* Bad, because it requires additional code to rework ResourceController and StateMachines service handling
* Bad, because it requires small refactor for PHPUnit handling

## Decision Outcome

Chosen option: **"Making all services public"**

For now, it is the most straightforward solution, that does not cost us too much, does not put additional debt on us and 

> it is solution that we are doing since 3.4(it was just implicit).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
it is the solution that we are doing since 3.4 (it was just implicit).
```
